In this exercise I'm going to demonstrate
a couple of practical uses of list
comprehension,
so, we're going to open a new program,
we'll call it list comp dot P Y.
For the first example, I'm going to find
all of the even numbers in a range.
So first thing I'm going to do is I'm
going to create a range.
I have from one to 100 stored in a list.
Then I'm going to write a list
comprehension to find even numbers.
You can do that by including an if
statement in the list comprehension.
Just like that.
So, we're saying, pull out x for x in N
if.
X mod 2 is equal to zero.
Remember that any number mod 2, if it's
equal to zero, then it's even.
Here we're replacing some sort of
computation, like square x or divide x by
some number with an if statement that will
return x if this condition is met.
So when we're finished we can print a list
of even numbers.
So let's save it.
Run our program,.
And there's our even numbers, 2 thorough a
100.
And if you notice they're all even.
So that's 1 example.
Let's look at one more example.
Let's say I want to print to length of all
the words in this sentence.
So here's my sentence I need to continue
it on the next line like so.
Now I need to get this string into a list.
And I can do that using a special string
function called split.
Split takes a single argument, a delimiter
and then it will break up a string into
list elements at the delimiter, so what
I'm telling it here is to split sentence
on space and store each resulting word in
the list words.
Now I'm assuming it will form a
sentence without any punctuation marks,so
once we have
that then we're ready to write the list
comprehension, so we're going to create a
new list called wlen for word length here
I want to create a list of temples that
include the word and the length of the
word for word in words.
Just like that.
So, for each word in the list words, I
want to create a tuple
of the word and the length of the word,
and store it in wlen.
And when I'm finished, I can say for i in
wien, print i.
So let's save it.
Clear the screen, and there's our list.
As an exercise for the viewer, you can
take this and sort it into order so
that, the smallest words are at the top,
and the largest words, were at the bottom.
In the mean time, we've run out of time
for this
exercise, and with that we close out this
chapter on List Comprehensions.